# OpenFOAM-PhD-Extensions
A collection of custom solvers, physical models, boundary conditions, and function objects developed and used during my PhD research for OpenFOAM v9.
1. bubbleqmom-dev/applications/solvers/multiphase/multiphaseEulerFoam - includes various versions of the hybrid solver based on (Hundshagen, 2023). This hybrid solver is based on multiphaseEulerFoam with a few modifications between the versions. It also includes the population balance models, which have been modified to accommodate the scale-resolving turbulence models by enabling the usage of the total turbulence dissipation rate, instead of just the modelled part.
2. The main directory includes a few versions of pimpleFoam, which include calculations of resolved fields and the time-averaged fields for statistical quantification of scale-resolving simulations such as LES. Additionally, runtime time-averaging is used within the solver itself instead of the available function object to overcome identified limitations.
3. turbModels_mod/src/MomentumTransportModels/momentumTransportModels - covers the various custom turbulence models that have been extended from the original formulation to include selected features.
4. porousBafflePressureAMI - integrates cyclicAMI (and cyclicACMI) into the existing porousBafflePressure boundary condition, which originally only works for conforming mesh interfaces. This tool enables virtual hydraulic resistance through a pair of periodic patches without requiring a physical geometry.
5. periodicTimeVaryingMappedFixedValue - allows periodic reading of pre-written data onto a boundary (e.g., time-varying inlet condition). When the maximum time of available data is reached, it returns to the first time automatically and repeats.
6. perturbU - initialisation for high-fidelity simulation with perturbations, based on (de Villiers, 2006). In a marginally unsteady flow, such as a channel flow, such an initialisation is required not only to speed up the simulation but also to achieve a correct solution first and foremost.
